Let's paint a picture of just what it
was like to join Airbnb in your 50s.
>> I was mentoring Brian, but he was also
my boss. I was 52. The average age was
26. I had to be both wise and curious
and often the dumbest person in the
room.
>> So, it's great to be in founder mode.
It's not as great to be working for
someone in founder mode.
>> Brian assumed everybody else was going
to work at the same pace and duration.
His point of view is like, hey, we're
having a meeting in the office tonight
at 10:00. You know, be there. Everyone's
talking about we got to make the product
better. We got to optimize this button
and improve conversion.
>> Isn't the product the homes and the
apartments? Jobat said no product in the
tech industry is something different. I
just said, listen, let's get some older
people who are hosts in here.
>> This whole story is a really good
example of the value of having folks
that are older.
>> When you have older brains connecting
the dots, younger team members being
really fast and focused, it's brilliant.
And people won't notice your wrinkles as
much as they'll notice your energy. The
Airbnb experience led you to starting
something called the modern elder
academy.
>> So if you think about the caterpillar to
butterfly journey, midlife is the
crystallis. Midlife is not crisis. I'm
happier today at 64 than I was at 47
when I was going through my flatline
experience.
>> Well, let's back up a little bit. This
near-death experience
today, my guest is Chip Connelly. Chip
is one of the most extraordinary and
interesting people that you'll ever
meet. He was a founding member of the
board of Burning Man. He was on the
board of the Eselin Institute in Big Su.
At 26, he started a hotel chain called
Jadviv, which went on to become the
second largest boutique hotel chain in
the US. After selling it, Brian Chesy
personally recruited Chip to join Airbnb
to help Brian and the company transform
from a fast growing startup to the
world's most valuable hospitality brand.
After leaving Airbnb, where he was known
as the modern elder, Chip started the
Modern Elder Academy, now known as MEA,
the world's first midlife wisdom school
with large, sprawling, beautiful
campuses in Baja and Santa Fe. He's also
written seven books, given a TED talk,
and is just a genuinely interesting and
amazing human and friend. In our
conversation, we explore how to be
successful in tech as you age. What he's
learned working with and for Brian
Chesy, including a lot of real talk, how
to build a great culture at your
company, his near-death experience, and
how it changed the trajectory of his
life, and so much more. If you enjoy
this podcast, don't forget to subscribe
and follow it in your favorite
podcasting app or YouTube. Also, if you
become an annual subscriber of my
newsletter, you get a year free of a
bunch of incredible products, including
Replet, Lovable, Bolt, NAN, Linear,
Superhum, Descript, Whisper Flow, Gamar,
Perplexity, Warp, Granola, Magic
Patterns, Raycast, JPRD, Mobin, and
more. Check it out at
lennisnewsletter.com and click bundle.
With that, I bring you Chip Connelly.
This episode is brought to you by Great
Question, the all-in-one UX research
platform loved by teams at Brex, Canva,
into it, and more. One of the most
common things I hear from PMs and
founders that I talk to is, "I know I
should be speaking to customers more,
but I just don't have the time or the
tools." That's exactly the gap Great
Question fills. Great Question makes it
easy for anyone on your team, not just
researchers, to recruit participants,
run interviews, send surveys, test
prototypes, and then share it all with
powerful video clips. It's everything
you need to put your customers at the
center of your product decisions. With a
prompt as simple as, "Why did users
choose us over competitors?" Great
question not only reveals what your
customers have already shared, but it
also makes it incredibly easy to ask
them in the moment for fresh insights
from the right segment. Picture this.
Your roadmap's clear. Your team's
aligned. You're shipping with
confidence, and you're building exactly
what your customers need. Head to
greatquest.com/lenny
to get started.
This episode is brought to you by Vanta.
When it comes to ensuring your company
has top-notch security practices, things
get complicated fast. Now you can assess
risk, secure the trust of your
customers, and automate compliance for
SOCK 2, ISO 27,01,
HIPPA, and more with a single platform,
Vanta. Vanta's marketleading trust
management platform helps you
continuously monitor compliance
alongside reporting and tracking risk.
Plus, you can save hours by completing
security questionnaires with Vanta AI.
Join thousands of global companies that
use Vanta to automate evidence
collection, unify risk management, and
streamline security reviews. Get $1,000
off Vanta when you go to
vanta.com/lenny.
That's venta.com/lenny.
Chip, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast. Oh my god,
Lenny. I I sort of feel like I'm your
father who's so proud of his son has
done. My son has done so well and I I
like to talk about tell all my friends
about you.
>> Wow. Uh I am honored. Uh I'm happy that
I'm making you proud, Chip, and I feel I
feel the same in reverse. Uh we got to
work together for many years at Airbnb.
I got to learn a ton from you. Uh I'm
really excited that more people are
going to get to learn from you from this
conversation. I'm thinking that the way
that we break up this conversation is
kind of break it up into three parts
which are kind of the three arcs of your
career and the three parts are your uh
early career building
your time at Airbnb where we got to work
together and then talking through what
you're working on now the modern elder
academy I actually want to start with
the middle chapter I want to talk about
Airbnb where we got to work together
let's paint a picture of just what it
was like for you to join Airbnb in your
50s uh surround ed by a bunch of 20some
30somes reporting to Brian Jesy who is I
don't know in his 30s. What was that
like?
>> So yeah, I I wasn't planning on doing
this. I I got a call uh from a woman
named Natalie Tucci who worked at Airbnb
and said I we Brian Chesy and I have
been talking about having you come in
and give a talk. Are you open to that?
And I was like well what is Airbnb?
>> This was uh 13 years ago. This was I
think it was the end of 2012 and then
Brian called me and said, "Listen, we
really want you to come in." And so I
came in and gave a talk about innovation
and hospitality. And and I think I I
didn't realize it was sort of a a a
dress rehearsal for Brian to sort of see
whether the younger crowd there um I was
52, the average age was 26 would, you
know, feel good about, you know, an old
geyser like me with a bricks and mortar
boutique hotel background uh talking
about the industry that Airbnb was
disrupting. Um, and as it turns out,
people liked me. And, um, so, uh, Brian
said, "I want you to come in for and
work 15 hours a week as a consultant. I
want you to be my in-house mentor for
both me and Joe and and Nate." And and I
said, "Okay, you know, 15 hours a week
is great." And then, uh, within three
weeks, it was 15 hours a day. And and
Brian and I was saying to Brian, you
know, you're actually not paying me
anything. Um they he gave me uh a little
bit of stock that would would vest in
six months and I said like I don't know
that this deal is working for me. Um
this is you you it seems like the
company needs me a little more than you
said and and he said yeah I got you. I
just wanted you to get in here and see
like what you could do. And long story
short is I ended up going full-time and
um it was hard at first, Lenny, because
I didn't understand the tech lingo. I I
didn't have any background. I was 52.
I'd never worked in a tech company
before. I was mentoring Brian on
leadership, but he was also my boss. I
was the um head of global hospitality
and strategy.
uh so which mess meant initially I was
in charge of all the hosts in the world
over time that like you know that meant
a lot more things too I I was involved
in
mo many parts of the business definitely
not the technical parts but I think the
hardest thing for me is was just that
initially when people were talking about
product and Joe said you know I'm the
chief product officer and I'm like well
isn't the product isn't the product the
homes and the apartments and Jobot said
no product in the tech industry is
something different. And so I had to be
both wise and curious and often the
dumbest person in the room. And that was
uh it required me to have a certain
amount of humility as well as to be
reporting to a guy 21 years younger than
me, Brian.
>> That actually the point you're making
there about what is the product? I I
asked uh Laura Hughes, formerly Laura
Modi, what to talk to you about, who we
got to work together. She's the CEO of
Bobby now. uh you work closely with her
at Airbnb and she said this was the
thing that stuck with her most about
working with you is coming in and and
everyone's talking about we got to make
the product better. We got to optimize
this button and improve conversion and
product product and you're just like
what is like what is the product? I
thought the product of Airbnb was the
hosts and the experiences and the trips
and I think that shows the value of
someone like you coming in with
different experience and also older and
helping us communicate differently to
hosts who also don't understand. Well,
there's an interesting thing also,
Lenny, and you you know this, the
difference in age between our hosts and
our guests was probably about 10 years
maybe. And over time, it actually got
higher um because we started actually
reaching out more uh aggressively to you
know, boomers and and Gen Xers to be
hosts. And so you had I remember one
point um and again, let's get into
product talk here. I remember one point
that there was a conversation that was
going on about taking Airbnb so it was
mobile only. Um, I mean, partly because
back in the day, the two sharing economy
darlings were Uber and Airbnb. And of
course, Uber was pretty much a mobile
only app. And Airbnb started as
non-mobile and then went mobile. And
then I was like, "Oh, wouldn't it be
interesting if everything was mobile?"
And at some point, I just said, "Listen,
let's get some older people who are
hosts in here to see how well they will
be versed in in in managing their
listing purely on mobile." And so there
were times where I was a voice for older
uh users in this case hosts um that was
helpful to you know guys and women in
their 20s who are the engineers and
designers and product managers and um I
always liked working with you. I want to
just compliment Lenny um for a minute.
How sweet is that? because and we did a
lot, you know, we were we did a lot of
different things together. And what I
appreciated was you you had a humility
to you that was different than a lot of
the other product managers. There's
other product managers, I'm not going to
mention their names, and there some of
these some of these product managers
were very good. There were other product
managers though who I found it sometimes
hard to work with because
they expected me to know as much as they
did. And you know, I guess it would be
the if the opposite side of that would
be um an older manager expecting a
younger manager to have as much
emotional intelligence because emotional
intelligence on average is something we
get better at as we get older. So I
think the key for me to work in that
environment and make it work was to not
pretend to know things I didn't know. It
was to have a sense of humor and
humility in how I operated. And it was
to show respect and hope that I got in
return. And I don't know if that you
felt that way, Lenny. I, you know,
that's that's the try the kind of
environment I tried to to embody there.
>> Absolutely. There's a couple of threads
there I want to follow. One is just
working for Brian. A lot of people talk
about founder mode and the power of
founder mode. It's so great.
>> And guess who like you know populated
that recently? That was Brian.
>> Exactly. Uh so it's great to be in
founder mode. It's not not as great to
be working for someone in founder mode.
Often a very challenging place to be.
>> Yes.
>> You reported to Brian. Uh also you were
just your own boss basically your entire
career. You never really had to report
to someone before. Also he was in his
30s, you're in your 50s. What was it
like working for Brian? Uh you know like
the more real you can be the better
because a lot of people always talk
about here is like I was wonderful. I
learned so much. Just like what was that
experience like? What did you learn from
working for someone like Brian? Well,
let's start with the fact that it I
would never have gone to work for Airbnb
if I didn't believe in Brian because
quite frankly when Brian approached me
and we started talking about I was like
I wasn't sure I liked the the business
model all that well as a hotel year. So
I had to believe in something beyond the
business model because I wasn't sure
that this the business model would work.
Although soon after joining I saw the
numbers I was like wow this is working
pretty well. But I believed in Brian
because the thing that Brian showed up
with initially was just a curiosity and
an appetite for learning. You know, I
remember back in 2011 when the, you
know, the big debacle happened with um
the the apartment getting uh trashed by
a guest and and so Brian decided he was
going to go to find, you know, George
Tennant, the the former head of the CIA.
And so like Jo Brian would go to experts
and and say to the expert, I don't know
what the hell I'm doing. And um he did
that with me when it came to
hospitality. So I appreciated that a guy
who had a lot of hubris, and Brian
definitely has a lot of hubris, could
also have the humility to to say, I want
to learn more about this. So it's sort
of a growth mindset. What was hard with
Brian is I'd say three things. Um,
number one is Brian assumed everybody
else was going to work at the same pace
and duration, you know, and he still has
this issue. I mean, the beautiful thing
about Brian is he's been very honest in
the last couple years on podcasts about
his workcoholism and about the fact that
the way he lives his life is not like
other people. But back when I joined,
you know, his point of view was like,
hey, we're having a meeting in the in
the office tonight at 10:00, you know,
be there. It's like, really? No, I don't
I don't think so. But so so I think the
the the fact that Brian assumed
everybody else was was as
one-dimensional in their focus as him
was at times a problem, especially for a
guy like me who was I was in a stage in
my career where like I have a lot of
interests. Um, so that was one. Number
two is Brian
admires and admired in back then Steve
Jobs so much that there was a sense that
as a guy who came from the product world
uh from the Rhode Island School of
Design,
he knew better than anybody else. And so
there was this you know one of the
challenges for a CEO sometimes and I
this was my experience in my 24 years of
running
Viv, my boutique hotel company is it
feels good when you feel needed. Um, and
to come into a room and sort of see
something and then point out the things
that are wrong makes you feel good. And
if you don't have emotional
intelligence, you can that process can
really piss people off or or demotiv
demotivate people. And in Brian's case,
I didn't have to deal with that too much
because he didn't understand when I was
starting. It was really I was in charge
of the hosts around the world. And so
quite frankly, the idea of what's the
psychology of the host? What's a host
entrepreneur like? I went on a world
tour to 20 different cities and went and
talked to hosts. And I think I came back
from that with a little bit of
credibility with Brian to say like, hey,
you know, yes, our data science team and
the quality folks were who are doing
qualitative interviews, they're getting
something out of this, but I actually
went into the homes of these hosts in
all around the world. And and I think I
I was lucky because Brian did less of
that than he did with other people. But
he for the for the product team, my god,
I mean, a product meeting with Brian
would keep people up the night before.
uh not just because they were actually
working all night long to get prepared,
but also that they knew they would work
all night long because they probably
wouldn't sleep in anticipation for this.
So that's that was another issue for I'd
say um I think the other thing that you
know that and and in each of these cases
I think Brian's getting better. So just
like Steve Jobs got better over time
when he left and then he came back, he
was much better when he came back from
all the people I've talked with who
worked with him. I'd say the third thing
for Brian was the sense
that adding a zero to something in terms
of expectations or thinking that you're
going to set a deadline that is
unreasonable
is necessary because if you don't do
that there's an almost an underlying
message that people won't kick ass on
their own. So there was a sense that
Brian had that he had to maybe create
ridiculous goals because even if we hit
half of that goal, it was very
encouraging. What he missed in that was
the fact that when you miss a goal and
when you have someone who has power over
you setting the goal or encouraging a
particular goal, you're setting people
up for, you know, a lot of stress.
And so at the end of the day, I think
Brian is an, you know, a generational
leader for as a millennial. Um, and I
think he deserves a lot of credit and
Airbnb is as successful as it is partly
because of Brian's leadership and I
would not have been there without him.
Having said that, I had to hold my
tongue in meetings sometimes
uh when I saw how he was operating
because I wouldn't have done it that
way. And I think over time, I hope I had
a little bit of influence on him in
terms of how to apply some emotional
intelligence uh to leading people.
>> For people in this position, a lot of
people work for founders, especially now
that founder mode is a thing. Every
founder is just like, I'm the founder.
You got to do what I tell you. It's
founder mode. We're getting this is how
we win. We're in founder mode. You
shared really good insight of building
credibility as a really good lever to
work better with someone like that. Is
there anything else you just think as uh
tactics to be effective with founders in
founder mode?
>> So, if I knowing what I know now, I
would say Lenny, let's let's do a little
pep talk you and me before the meeting.
I want you to start the meeting with the
following uh as as you present and
Brian's in the room. So, Brian, let's
talk about what we're trying to
accomplish here. Let's get really clear,
and you probably did this, but let's get
really clear on what um both what's the
intention of this iteration we're doing
on the product, like what defines
success and what do I want to get
accomplished in this meeting? And you
start with that because that actually
helps to make sure there's alignment.
And frankly, if there's not alignment,
you might as well not have the meeting.
Let's spend the rest of this meeting
talking about alignment. That's what I
would do because that's something you
can come back to over and over again
during the rest of the meeting. When
Brian or the founder, whomever it is, is
beating you up on something, saying
like, "Well, let me tell you why it
looks like that or why we're doing
that." It goes back to that, you know,
the three principles or the three key
goals we're we're trying to do with this
product update. And um yeah, so so try
to set alignment on the front end.
>> That's a that's an important tip for
anyone working with anyone even. So I
love I love just that that works
especially well here. And then just
going back to the credibility piece, I
what you shared there is you went on
this world tour. Not something everyone
can do, but just like getting really
close to your customers and using that
as a hey, I actually know what I'm
talking about. You actually should
listen to me even though you're the
founder.
>> Yeah. And don't and I think the other
thing is um PowerPoint or whatever
whatever tool you're using. I mean like
just be careful about being overly
reliant upon it. It just it's
especially when you have a combustible
founder who may take you off path such
that your deck in its current order
makes no sense at all. So that I always
wanted to really limit the deck as much
as possible because I didn't know where
the meeting was going to go and I wanted
the deck's helpful at the start at the
very start to just sort of set
principles, set goals. Um but yeah,
>> so this whole story of you joining
Airbnb in your 50s is a really good
example of of uh c intergenerational
collaboration, something that you're big
on just the value of having folks that
are older working at tech companies.
Maybe just talk about that broadly and
then we segue into other elements of
your career.
>> I wrote a book called Wisdom at Work:
The Making of a Modern Elder after my
Airbnb experience and um I did a lot of
research. I was like, "Wow, so why do we
have less intergenerational
collaboration in the workplace,
especially in Silicon Valley, than we
could we could use?" And I started
interviewing people. Then I started
talking to brain scientists,
neuroscientists, and realized that a
younger brain has fluid intelligence,
tends to be fast and focused, really
good at problem solving, uh, very good
at linearity in terms of looking at
things. As you get older, the brain
shrinks a little bit and you have
crystallized intelligence. And in
crystallized intelligence, what's going
on is your brain, you're going from left
brain to right brain more adeptly.
You're there's a little bit less focus,
a little more holistic thinking,
systemic thinking, connecting the dots.
So you can imagine that on a team in a
you know when you have older brains
connecting the dots thinking broadly
peripherally younger team members being
really fast and focused and being able
to think linearly how to get things
done. That combination can either be
successful or not. When it's successful
it's brilliant. And I think Laura, you
know, Laura Modi, um, Laura Hughes Modi,
who was my director of hospitality, but
also we worked in so many different
capacities with her in the company. I
loved working with her because her brain
worked different than my brain. And um
that's the opportunity is when you
realize that diversity on a team whether
you know there's lots of kinds of
diversity but when it comes to uh brain
diversity not just with neurodeiverse
people but age diverse people you get a
benefit an effective benefit that is not
as uh noticeable quite frankly in some
other diversities. Uh so I found that
over and over was really helpful. Part
of my job sometimes was to find the
blind spot. You know, again, if you are
very focused, you know, one of the
things I said to Brian early on um was,
you know, I I've seen the business plan
now. I know the goals of how big we want
to be in three years. This was very
early in my tenure. I said, but what we
really have done, everything we're
trying to do is to like have no
regulations and pay no occupancy tax.
Now, hotels pay a bed tax, occupancy
tax. we're not paying it and we're
trying to do everything we can not to
pay it knowing that you know so for our
listeners and viewers to know this this
is something that a guest pays. It's not
the host who pays it the guest pays it.
It's part of the bill. If you go and
stay in a hotel there's a big big tax
part of the bill. But it made us more
affordable by not having to pay tax have
our guests pay taxes. Long story short
is I said to Brian if we're as big as
we're going to be three years from now I
promise you we're going to be regulated.
I promise you, we're gonna pay be paying
occupancy taxes. So, let's take some
proactive steps toward
building a strategy for how we're going
to be regulated. And that's that has
consistently been Airbnb's biggest
challenge is regulation in municipal
markets all around the world. If we'd
started a little earlier, maybe in New
York, maybe in New York, it wouldn't
have gotten to the point where it has
been toxic in New York the whole for the
last dozen years um ever since I was
there. And there's a few other markets
in the in the world where it was like
that. So, I would just say, you know, um
the value in in having some age
diversity, even when you have an older
person reporting to a younger person, is
it can be collaborative. There was a guy
named John Q. Smith, uh, you know, an
engineer who you I think you probably
remember him, uh, uh, at at Airbnb. So,
this is a guy who looked younger than he
was and was he was a little bit nervous
about PE like telling people his age.
But the thing that was great about John
is over time he was not necessarily
going to be the best coder uh, at
Airbnb. There was a whole new collection
of coders coming in every, you know,
month. But he became a great manager.
And the beautiful thing about moving
from the, you know, individual
contributor to the the manager, the
person who can actually bring out the
best in a bunch of younger people who
may be better technically than he or she
is, but they know how to elevate talent.
I call this invisible productivity. It's
it's productivity in which you make
everybody else around you better. And
that's something I tried to do with my
teams at Airbnb. And ultimately I had
six different teams, five hospitality
and five other teams reporting to me.
And I did my best to just be the kind of
person who wasn't solving all the
problems, but I was trying to elevate.
There was a woman named Lisa Deost who
is at at Airbnb and she one day I the
HRE department was reporting to me at
one point and she was running HR. She
was 25 and had no background in HR at
all. And one day she came into me and
she just said, "Chip, you are my
confidant." and Lisa Lisa has a French
accent and you know fluent in French and
she said so she said confidant in just
the right way and and I said oh well
thank you Lisa but I said to her you
haven't given me any juicy details yet
like a confidant is someone who has the
secrets and and she said to me no in my
in my part of France a confidant is
somebody who gives you confidence
and it was like oh well maybe that's
what a mentor can be is a confidant
someone who gives gives you confidence
and helps by asking questions helps you
as the younger mentee find your road map
to success.
>> So you're sharing a lot of really good
examples of the value of older folks
being within tech companies. So let me
just ask you this. How how real is agism
in tech? And I ask because a lot of
people that are hiring are probably
thinking, "No, no, I'm not biased. I'm
going to hire the best person. If
there's someone in their 50s, I'll hire
them. No problem." Doesn't feel like it
actually works out that way often. just
how real of a problem is this? What do
you see?
>> Yeah, it, you know, it's clearly a
problem. Um, I'd say it's maybe a little
bit less of a problem than it was a
dozen years ago because I think a dozen
years ago it was almost a blind spot.
You know, in Airbnb, we had a group
called Wisdom at Airbnb. It was an
employee resource group for people 40
and older. And so there are lots of
these kinds of groups that didn't exist
a dozen years ago in all kinds of tech
companies, which is good because it
means that there's a there's a voice and
a way to congregate with a bunch of
people who are older. Ultimately, we had
these senior we had these senior nomads
come in and be like the voice of the
customer for 10 weeks at Airbnb. And it
was the wisdom at Airbnb older employee
group that really actually pushed for
this with Brian. But the the challenge
is in a world in which the smartest new
people especially when it comes to
technical skills and engineering are
coming in with a whole new you know uh
set of skills that an older person
doesn't have. The the older person is
both expensive uh and may be perceived
as slow. So in the era of AI, it's a
whole new ballgame and the question I
think will be if what AI cannot do is
the human wisdom piece, artificial
intelligence and and human wisdom might
be the balance beams here. Is it
possible that older managers who have a
little more emotional intelligence, a
little more more pattern recognition, a
little bit more wisdom um can be a value
to a company? And so it's still the the
jury still out. There's a New York Times
article that just came out about the
question of is AI going to wipe out
older people's jobs or younger people's
jobs? And I think the answer is both.
But the the question is how much how bad
is it for both of them and um I think
that what I would say to an older person
and when I say older I mean what 45 or
older if you've done well financially
and you're doing okay the question you
might ask yourself is are you open as I
ultimately was with Brian in my fourth
year at Airbnb I took a substantial pay
cut like I think I went to down to 40%
or 50% time and my stock uh my you
options were dropped to that level. My
salaries dropped to that level because I
didn't want to work full-time anymore.
And there are a lot of people who can be
valuable in a company who have some
institutional wisdom, some process
knowledge of how to get things done in
this organization. And in tech
companies, that's really important. Um,
Airbnb, one of the biggest challenges at
Airbnb has always been how do I get
done around here? Um, and process
knowledge allows you to understand how
do you how do you deal with an org chart
and get things done partly because you
understand the motivations of different
groups and that is something you build
over time. So, long story short is um I
just think that uh you know older people
might look at their workload and say I'm
willing to take a 20% or a 40% pay cut
to go to 80% or 60% time and the company
is going to get their money's worth in
that. That's a really interesting point
that if you're older and you're maybe
less connected to the most cutting edge
ways of building and and coding, AI
makes that a lot easier in many ways
where you start to just talk to it. You
don't even need to understand what's
happening underneath.
>> Yeah.
>> So, there's a lot of listeners who are
older in tech. There's a lot of
listeners who are approaching midlife,
let's say, worried about what happens to
their career. When you look at people
you've worked with and had at your
academy, which we'll talk about, who
continue to thrive and continue to have
a really healthy career in tech, what do
they do differently? What do they do?
What what do they have in common that
other folks you think should work on and
focus on?
>> I think this this idea of being a
mentor, a mentor and an intern, this
just the voracious appetite for
curiosity.
When I talk to someone who's in midlife
and wants to be in the tech world or
already is, the thing I say is show up
with curiosity and a passionate
engagement for what you do. And people
won't necessarily notice your wrinkles
as much as they'll notice your energy.
And energy has two parts to it. Uh
energy is they notice that you are not
just sort of resting on your laurels.
You are you have like physical you know
energy in how you do your job. And when
people are like that, they are sort of
timeless. They are a they're age fluid,
as I say. Um, we talk about gender
fluidity. Well, there could be age
fluidity. They they don't they're
defined by their age. But the other part
of energies that's important is being
positive. You know, that's sort of more
energetic, like a little bit more
California energetic. There's a sense of
like when someone's got good energy,
you're drawn to them. So, it's about
showing up with the kind of energy of
someone 10 or 20 years younger than you
and then showing up with positive
energy. And I think one of the things
that I would say I did well at I mean
there's lots of things I didn't do well
at Airbnb, but in terms of what I did
well is I was very approachable. And
over the course of time, the number of
mentees I had, the number of people who
just wanted to have coffee with me or
tea, the number of people who just said,
"Thank you for being in that meeting,
you just sort of gave it a positive
feeling was really important." and and
um so my energy both the positive energy
part and then also the fact that yeah I
I could work 60 and 70 hours a week and
I could travel around the world as the
as the secretary of state of the company
which is what Brian called me a couple
times on the stage. The fact that I
could do that meant that no one was
looking at me and saying let's get rid
of the old fogy. Uh well maybe some
people were but I wasn't aware of them.
So, I just think show up with that
passionate engagement, that curiosity,
that energy, the ability to be both the
learner and the teacher with respect for
people that younger than you, and you're
going to probably do pretty well. That
is really great advice. Today's episode
is brought to you by KOD. I personally
use KOD every single day to manage my
podcast and also to manage my community.
It's where I put the questions that I
plan to ask every guest that's coming on
the podcast. It's where I put my
community resources. It's how I manage
my workflows. Here's how KOD can help
you. Imagine starting a project at work
and your vision is clear. You know
exactly who's doing what and where to
find the data that you need to do your
part. In fact, you don't have to waste
time searching for anything because
everything your team needs from project
trackers and OKRs to documents and
spreadsheets lives in one tab all in
KOD. With KOD's collaborative all-in-one
workspace, you get the flexibility of
docs, the structure of spreadsheets, the
power of applications, and the
intelligence of AI, all in one easy to
organize tab. Like I mentioned earlier,
I use KOD every single day, and more
than 50,000 teams trust KOD to keep them
more aligned and focused. If you're a
startup team looking to increase
alignment and agility, KOD can help you
move from planning to execution in
record time. To try it for yourself, go
to kod.io/lenny. io/lenny today and get
6 months free of the team plan for
startups. That's cooda.io/lenny
to get started for free and get six
months of the team plan. kod.io/lenny.
Interestingly, curiosity comes up a lot
when I ask AI forward people what are
they focusing on helping their kids
learn most. Curiosity is the most common
way to describe. So, at every stage of
life, curiosity is uh some to cultivate.
I want to go to the flip side of
companies looking to hire. Feels like
there's this uh untapped supply of
awesome people that companies with agism
and tech uh aren't finding and hiring.
So to help hiring managers and companies
take advantage of this, what's something
you suggest they do? How do they shift
their mindset or maybe shift the way
they they hire that might help them find
these people? I think we're moving into
there's a there's a book that David
Epste wrote called range and the whole
premise of range is that we are moving
out of the era of the specialists and
into the era of the generalists and I
think AI is just accelerating this um as
we are more reliant upon AI and AI can
can be exceptional at technical skills
and solutions really expeditiously.
I think generalists, people who can
think broadly become all the more
important. And I think that what I would
say to someone in HR or recruiting,
uh, is yet beyond what I already said
before is is the person passionate? Are
they curious? Are they a learner? Um, do
they have good energy? But I would also
say, are they a generalist when they're
a problem solver? because I actually
think that's going to be an increasingly
important part of how effective
companies think broadly.
So I think that's a key one. I think
also this idea of how do you create
intergenerational collaboration in the
form of mutual mentorships. Um, one of
the things I I I loved at Airbnb with
there were a few people I did this with
where I had something to teach them and
they had something to teach me. So, um,
good example, my iPhone. So, there's 97%
of the utility of my iPhone that I
probably don't use and don't know how to
use. This is, you know, back in, let's
say, 2013, 2014.
And so there were people in who knew
iPhone or Google suites back then. I'd
never used a Google doc back then when I
joined Airbnb. So there were people who
could teach me something technical and
then they wanted to learn something from
me which would be like how do you run a
great meeting um or how do you give a
great employee review? you know, there
are a lot of managers who've never been
a manager before and and so how do you
disperse people like me in the
organization so that you don't you know
there's usually not enough time for
these young managers to come to some
training session on how to do a good you
know employee review. So you sort of
have to do it out there in the field.
It's like apprenticeship. You know, back
in the trades, you are you're an
electrician apprentice. Not because
you're watching, you know, some video on
it. You're out there in the field doing
it. And and that's a huge value in a
younger company when you have some older
people who have not been vested with the
responsibility of managing those younger
people because they may have they may
actually be reporting to someone younger
than them, but they're there to actually
be support. And um in some ways I think
that was part of the unexpected value
that I was able to offer to Airbnb and
to Brian specifically because there are
a ton of people in Airbnb who were not
even in my departments who would come to
me and say I'm having a problem. How do
I solve this? Can we spend lunch
together? And you know I almost always
said yes. I think the reason people did
that in many ways is you just have a
very unique aura of wisdom and it's hard
to replicate that chip. Yeah. I mean
Yes. And it all comes back to the
curiosity. If I was just the older elder
dispensing wisdom, people would have
gotten bored very quickly. And I think
the fact Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I was on
the board of Burning Man. Oh, that's
cool. And so there was a I I I I show up
as someone who feels younger than I am.
I mean, I'm turning 65 this year. So the
bottom line is I think people lost track
of my age
partly because I lost track of my age.
That's such a good such good advice. So
on the front end uh to be successful as
a person kind of getting older in tech
is curiosity, positive energy. the way
you tal talked about it passionate
passionate uh engagement is that the
term?
>> Yep.
>> And then on the other side is uh hired
generalist. This actually comes up a lot
in in the AI conversation just exactly
as you said the power of generalist
reminds me I'm I'm going to this gym now
and the lady there is just like I love
AI so much because I'm just such a big
picture person and I can so bad at just
getting thinking about the details and
AI solves all that for me. It's like
here here's what I want to do. I'll do
this, move my house to here, here. And
it's like, here's what you need to do.
Step one, two, three, four, five.
>> It is remarkable. I mean, you know,
since the time I've known you, how fast
it has become dominant in our lives. Uh,
but yeah, I think one of the last thing
I'd say is look, I'm privileged.
>> So, for those of you who are listening
or watching this and you're saying,
well, you know, Chip, you were 52 years
old and they came to you. Like, that
doesn't happen to me. I'm not in that
position. The thing I would say is
you're right. So I but I could have been
plucked and brought in and partly as as
Brian's boy, people would have like
rejected me because if I didn't show up
the right way, it wouldn't have worked
well. Uh and there are lots of people
who Brian brought into the company who
didn't work well. So I think I think the
key is how do you get the foot in the
door? And at the end of the day um you
know those second and third order of you
know uh degrees of separation um in
terms of networking is are still
essential.
But the most important thing is to be
able to articulate
what you have accomplished in a new way
that a recruiter says wow. And so I I
really tell people like I I would love
to see a resume. First of all, the
question that uh I think it it was who
was someone asked it. I don't remember
if it's Cheryl Stanber or someone else
asked her who said like what's the
biggest problem you're dealing with here
and how can I help you? Like that's a
great that's a great line. Number two is
uh what I love to see is not so much
what roles you've had, what bullet
points do you have of your like things
you've learned.
Give me in a paragraph a a a thorny
problem you faced. Um what what was the
problem and how you got how you what
skills you used to actually accomplish
it and what was the result of that. I
would love to see a resume like that.
And the older you are, the more you can
actually have a resume like that. And
then you can use that as the
conversation piece when you're doing
interview your interviews.
>> So,
>> I love that. I love that we're getting
into interview advice and resume advice.
>> Yes.
>> Um, speaking of throwing problems and
also uh why Brian decided to reach out
to you, I want to go back to the
beginning of your career.
>> Yes.
>> So,
you're good at this, by the way. You're
good at this. was thinking ahead.
Okay, so you're in business school. You
left business school. You decid you're
like maybe I should start a hotel. Uh
something that rarely works out usually
probably leads to a lot of money lost
and a lot of frustration and just like
okay what have I done with my life
worked out for you? Ended up building
the second largest boutique hotel chain
in the world. Uh beloved uh I I I loved
every single experience I've had at when
you sold it. I was like that is so sad.
Talk about just that that story. Uh, I
know this could go on for hours, but
what's the
>> Yeah, I'll be I'll be brief.
>> Yeah.
>> 26 years old, couple years out of
Stanford Business School, working for
commercial real estate developer. I was
bored silly. I wanted to do something
more creative. Bill Graham, famous
concert promoter, said to me, you know,
because I gotten to know him, what San
Francisco really needs is a rock and
roll hotel. So, I decided to start
looking to to find a broken down motel
hotel that I could turn into a rock and
roll hotel. and I found something in the
Tenderloin
uh and uh and turned it into the Phoenix
which became a famous rock and roll
hotel that I have owned for 39 years
now. Um so long story short is that was
how I started in the company and we grew
to 52 hotels around California became
the second largest as you said in the in
the world uh in terms of the number of
hotels boutique hotels that we operated
and I loved it till I hated it in my
late 40s. I hated it. Didn't want to do
it anymore. I was, you know, the Great
Recession came along and it was just
kicking my ass. And I really went
through a bit of a what I now call a
midlife cryis, uh, but a midlife crisis,
um, where I just wanted to change
everything. And, um, I got through it.
Uh, I had an NDE, had a near-death
experience where I had an allergic
reaction to an antibiotic and I died.
And from that point forward, I realized
every day is a a gift and a bonus. and
um uh you know I decided to sell my
company at the bottom of the great
recession. So that's so that was really
how I created this space in my life to
be able to join Airbnb.
>> Well, let's back up a little bit. This
near-death experience uh share more
there what happened there.
>> Yeah, I was uh so I write books. have
written seven or eight books and I had
written a book called Peak uh how great
companies get their mojo from Maslo and
it was a book that Brian really liked
and part of the reason he he wanted to
reach out to me. Um I was on a book
tour. I had a broken ankle. Uh broke my
ankle at a bachelor party uh playing
baseball and um I ended up with a cut on
my leg and um the cut on my leg had
fertilizer in it and went septic and so
I was on a very strong antibiotic and I
died. I went flatline from the allergic
reaction to the antibiotic and so I saw
you know I it happened nine times over
90 minutes. I kept dying, kept
flatlining and yeah, ended up in the
hospital for a couple three days and
they finally said, "Listen, it's an
allergic reaction. We believe they
thought it was I thought they thought it
was a heart attack. Thought a bunch of
stuff, stroke, etc." No, it was the
allergic reaction. So, but you know, I
saw birds. I mean, I saw all this
beautiful stuff. I We don't have time to
go into it.
>> What?
>> I did. You want to hear this? Yeah. No,
I saw this beautiful stuff.
the the best I think there's a hotel in
San Francisco called the Vitali that I
built um across the street from the
ferry building and it's still there but
it's no longer called the Vitali. Um in
that hotel there were these slippers in
every guest room. One slipper said slow,
the other slipper said down. Um, and so
I was wearing these slippers in my
flatline thing,
uh, flying in in the air in a 40 foot
tall living room in the Alps, surrounded
by birds that were twer tweeting and and
chirping at me. And I understood bird
talk. I understand I understood exactly
what they were saying. And they kept
telling me, "If you slow down, you will
see beauty and you will see awe." And
there was a bunch of other things, but
let me just limit it to that and just
say, and then the birds would like say,
"It's time to go." And the birds would
go out the big window, you know, into
the mountains, and I would try to follow
them. And right as I would get to the
window, all of a sudden, I'd come back
to life.
>> Holy Uh, I love that this was uh
like there was a message inside of this
experience. I don't know how many people
experienced that. Clearly, this led to a
big life change. And it's interesting
that a lot of times you need something
like that. Like you've been doing this
for how many years at that point
running?
>> Uh, at that point I've been running for
22 years and
>> 22 years. And it's interesting that you
need something like that a lot of times
otherwise it just momentum just keeps
carrying you forward.
>> Yep. within two years I'd sold it and
you know I had had the chance to move
on.
>> So with building Juvary something you've
written about a number of times is just
the way you built it as a really unique
approach to building a business.
Specifically there's a huge focus on
culture which also came out at Airbnb.
Talk about just why you see culture as
such an important part of how you build
a business like tangibly because a lot
of people talk about culture warm fuzzy
stuff but you think about it very
tangibly. Culture is what happens around
here when the boss is not around. Um and
and the more distributed a company,
the more culture is important because
the boss is around
in a traditional bricks and mortar
workplace where everybody shows up at 8
and leaves at 6 and we all see each
other.
But uh at in my company in Aviv, we had
52 hotels and 25 restaurants and four
spas and it was distributed. So I
couldn't be in all those places all the
time. And same similarly with Airbnb. I
mean Airbnb had offices around the world
and was it was a global company. So the
more distributed you are, of course, in
the remote work world we live in, the
more culture is important and more
difficult because the when you're
remote, you know, there's these few cues
you have about how we do things around
here and they're usually in a digital
virtual format, which is why, you know,
it's all the more important for you to
have in-person gatherings of a team more
often if you are virtual. So at the end
of the day, the reason culture is
important is because it actually helps
it helps guide people in terms of making
decisions,
but it's also a magnet for the right
kind of people. So Oracle has a
different, you know, culture than Apple,
which has a different culture than
Facebook. And so you can choose the
place you're going to work based upon
the culture. And
there are people who can be very good at
what they do, but if they're in the
wrong culture, they're in the wrong kind
of environment and they're not willing
to shift to fit that culture. And we saw
it at Airbnb all over and over again. Uh
in in fact, Airbnb saw it, I think, when
with Amazon people. Um Apple people have
resonated pretty well at at at Airbnb.
Amazon people less so. And those are two
different cultures, Amazon and and
Apple. And that therefore understanding
a culture before you even actually take
the job is one of the more important
decisions you need to make is like is
this culture a culture that I can live
with? Um and maybe influence. Um there's
language about culture fit. I like to
say culture ad because culture fit to me
means can actually be quite negative
toward somebody who is the aberration.
Um you have to fit in and especially if
this is like a demographic thing, a
person of color, a gay person, a you
know a person in a wheelchair. So you
have to fit in. But a culture ad
suggests that actually having some
diversity on the team is helpful because
it actually adds to the culture. But
that's still h you still have to be able
to get along in that culture. So culture
is an intangible. That's the problem
with it is it's hard to measure but you
see its value and you understand whether
it's working based upon p you know
employee pulse reports and things like
that.
>> You talk about having to understand a
culture is such a key part of having
success at a company. Do you have any
advice for just how to understand that
culture for someone interviewing? I
don't know like you know you came in you
work part-time it's easier to experience
it all any tips there for like okay this
is for me this not for me
>> when you're interviewing you're you're
also interviewing them when you're
interviewing it's not about you having
to prove yourself it's also for them to
actually prove themselves as a company
and also try to understand if there is
um some alignment in the company and so
the kind of questions I would ask as
someone who's being interviewed would be
what are three to five adjectives that
define this culture. What's the biggest
problem in this culture in terms of
something that's just endemic or like
baked in across the organization and is
it ever going to get fixed and how could
I come in and maybe help that? Uh which
frankly at a very junior level you're
not going to be able to help it. Uh
except for in very minor ways. If you're
a senior person you might be able to
help it. Um,
so those are those are the kind of
questions I'd want to know. And frankly,
if I'm asking that same question about
what are the adjectives to multiple
people, am I hearing the same thing over
and over again? Um, and if I'm not, is
that because there's not alignment, is
that because different departments have
different flavors? Um, because you can
have a culture within a department
that's very different than the overall
corporate culture. The corporate culture
certainly has an enormous oppressive uh
influence, but uh you know you can you
can you can be in a culture uh a really
great culture of a team or a department
in an overall company culture that's not
good. In the long run, that oppressive
company culture is either going to have
to evolve or your department may be you
may lose people. When I reflect back on
one of the on the impact you had at
Airbnb, one of the funny uh things I
think about is uh triangles showing up a
lot on decks uh and specifically rooted
in Maslo's hierarchy. Just like
everything's this Maslo hierarchy
metaphor.
>> True. Um, and this one uh I don't know
specific piece of this is you have this
kind of model you think about for how to
help employees be successful at a
company. It's kind of rooted in your
peak book uh philosophy. Maybe just talk
about that and then if there's anything
else you want to expand on with this
power of thinking through the Masow
hierarchy.
>> So you know Maslo's hierarchy basically
five levels. Later in life he had a
seven and an eight level model. But you
know uh at the base is you know physical
uh you know the kind of physical water,
food, air and you move up to
self-actualization at the top. Um
so to use this model as a hierarchy of
needs for employees, customers and
investors is what the peak model is
about. uh the the you know the peak uh
my book um the employee model is really
simple. It's money or compensation at
the base um recognition in the middle
and meaning at the top. Now there are
some industries and some kinds of jobs
in which money is 90% of the pyramid. So
just because it's at the base doesn't
mean it's not the dominant part of the
pyramid. But the differentiation often
is in recognition and meaning in
nonprofits. It's usually the money piece
of it's rather thin and the
recognition's this and meaning is huge.
So I so understanding how do you create
an organization and and I gave a TED
talk in 2010 about this topic as well.
Um how do you create a how do you
measure the intangibles uh of meaning
and how do you create an environment
where people feel a sense of meaning? Um
the customer pyramid briefly, I'll just
say that one is meeting expectations is
the base, meeting desires is in the
middle and then meeting unrecognized
needs. And I think one of the things
that we did at Airbnb about a year after
I joined and when Jonathan Mildenhal was
joining is we really tried to ask
ourselves, are we in the home sharing
business or are we in some kind of
business that is even bigger and broader
than that? And ultimately we we came up
with the idea that we were in the belong
anywhere business. Airbnb was not in
home sharing. We were in belonging
anywhere. So once you have that uh down
that was sort of the unrecognized need
at the top of the pyramid. Then that
becomes an organizing principle for how
do you teach your hosts to create a
sense of belonging? um how do our how
does our marketing and advertising play
up the belonging piece especially and
the everywhere piece because hotels are
not everywhere but homes are and so I
would just say that you know this model
the idea of hierarchies is I think very
helpful um and uh yeah my book peak is
has been out for 18 years but I still am
asked to give 20 or 30 speeches a year
on it
>> oh man this uh this pyramid of comp
recognition meaning is really
interesting Especially these days
because uh like with all this AI uh
researcher poaching, there's all this
talk of just like it will people just go
work wherever the you know they get they
get the most money or is there a mission
and and meaning to the work they're
doing that will keep them not taking a
hundred million dollar offer and seems
to be happening a lot of cases which
shows you the power of meaning.
>> Yeah. I mean, if you know you're working
for a toxic company, at some point your
conscience kicks in. Whether it's toxic
in terms of the purpose of the company,
toxic in terms of the leadership or the
culture. Um, yeah. Life is too short.
Okay. So, you've had two major shifts in
your career. You started the hotel
chain, you went to then you went to
Airbnb. Most recently, the Airbnb
experience, I imagine, led you to
starting something in the called the
Modern Elder Academy. talk about what is
the modern elder academy.
>> Yeah. What is going on with that modern
elder academy? The modern elder academy.
So there was a couple times where I was
called the modern elder at Airbnb. And
then I was told that a modern elder is
someone who's as curious as they are
wise. So uh Jonathan Mildenhal who was
the chief marketing officer at at Airbnb
used to call me the modern elder as
well. And when he and he said like if
you ever create a school you you know
modern modern elder would be a good
name. And so we talked about it and next
thing I knew I was like saying okay this
is called the modern elder academy. We
now call it MEA because elder is a
fraught word on some level. It makes you
sound elderly. But um what I really
wanted to create was a place where
people could come and do a workshop. you
you know they're fiveday workshops um in
Baja on the beach or in Santa Fe on a
big four square mile uh horse ranch and
reimagine and repurpose yourself and
navigate transitions. We go through so
many transitions in the middle of our
life. Let's say between I I define
midlife as 35 to 75 guys. So like this
is it's a very it's a very long life
stage. So we go through a lot of
transitions. We are constantly evolving
our purpose. We're building our wisdom.
You know, we have knowledge management
tools out there, but where are the
wisdom management tools? Where are the
tools that help us to get wiser over
time? And then we need to reframe our
relationship with getting older because
Becca Levy has shown at Yale that when
you shift your mindset on aging from a
negative to a positive, you get seven
and a half years of additional life,
which is more life than any other
biohack that's being done right now. So
that's what we do. and we have 7,000
grads from 60 countries and 56 regional
chapters around the world. So, it's a
bit of a movement. And um I teach I I
teach some of the workshops and we have
all kinds of famous people who come and
teach. And for me, creating the world's
first midlife wisdom school just feels
like the the natural next thing for me
to do. I I love hospitality so it's a
very upscale kind of experience, but we
have scholarships. I love um retreat
centers. I was on the board of the
Eselin Institute in Big Surf for 10
years. I love wellness. I've owned the
Kabuki Springs and Spa for 28 years um
which is the largest spa in San
Francisco.
And I love education and my book wisdom
at work the making of a modern elder
gave me a curriculum in which we've
expanded quite a bit with uh Harvard,
Yale, Stanford and UC Berkeley
professors helping us a great greater
curriculum around midlife. Um and so
that's how MEA came about.
>> Uh to your point I forget who said I
think you said Jonathan has said this
was the natural next step for you. I
completely agree. It's like looking back
this is the obvious thing you should be
doing right now. Yeah.
>> Uh, also I'm learning more things about
you. I didn't know you were involved
with the Kabuki Spa. I think Esel and I
knew just keep getting more interested.
>> Thank you.
>> There's a couple threads here I want to
actually follow. So this point you made
about shifting your mindset to aging is
a positive thing. Makes you helps you
live longer. That's such a powerful
point. Can you just speak more to that?
Just what does that look like?
>> Yeah, there's a couple there's lots of
data points. I'm just I'll talk about
two. One is this Becca Levy study which
has been going on for 15 to 20 years. If
you sort of take buy into the agism of
American society or Hallmark cards when
you get a a a card at age 40, 50 or
beyond, there's a belief that life gets
worse as you get older. And um and if
you can survive your midlife crisis, all
you have to look forward to is disease,
decrepitude, and death. And the bottom
line is uh you know, there's a lot of
things that get better with age. I wrote
a book called Learning to Love Midlife.
The subtitle says it all. 12 reasons why
life gets better with age. And what I
really wanted to do with that book,
which is really it it summarizes the MEA
curriculum. I wanted to write a book
that sort of helped people to see the
upside of aging, the unexpected
pleasures of aging. Uh so they had a
pro-aging, not just an anti-aging point
of view. Because when you actually have
a pro-agging point of view, and you see
the upside of aging, you take better
care of yourself, both your mind and
your body, you actually are willing to
learn and try new things. One of my
favorite MEA questions is 10 years from
now, what will you regret if you don't
learn it or do it now? It's a powerful
question, really important question as
we get older. When you're young, you
know, you've got all, you know, all of
your life left ahead of you. But when I
moved to Baja part-time in Mexico at age
56, um I had a mindset which was I'm too
old to learn Spanish. I'm too old to
learn to surf. But when I said 10 years
from now, what will I regret if I don't
learn it or do it now? And I said, well,
10 years from now, I might still be
living in Baja, like I should learn
this. I should learn Spanish. I should
learn how to surf because we're right
next to a surf break. And so I did. Um,
so what I believe is that anticipated
regret is a form of wisdom. And so and
it's a catalyst for taking action. So
that's one data point. The other data
point is something called the U curve of
happiness and it's been around for 20
years and it shows the following. It has
changed in the last couple years because
young adults are h unhappy like never
before. So a 20 or a 22 year old really
unhappy, 24y old really unhappy. But
historically the way it was is you were
happy from 18 to 23 or 24 and then
around 23 24 you start to see a long
slow decline in life satisfaction that
actually uh bottoms out between 45 and
50. I'm sorry to tell you that Lenny
since you're 44. Um but your mileage may
vary.
>> So you're saying I'm the least happy
I'll ever be. Like that's only upside.
That's great.
>> Yeah. Well, here's the part that's weird
is that when before this re research was
done, and it's global research across
all demographics, what they found was uh
starting around age 50 or 52, you get
happier. So that you're happier in your
50s than your 40s, 60s 50s, 70s happier
than 60s, and women in their 80s happier
than 70s. So, wow. And it's partly
because we are in around 45 to 50 doing
this thing called the um the midlife
unraveling. What Bnee Brown calls the
midlife unraveling. You're unraveling
your expectations, your uh what you
define as success. Uh your definition of
you what a beautiful body looks like and
you get some you're liberated into
freedom in your 50s and beyond. And uh I
can say that yeah, I'm happier today at
64 than I was at 47 when I was going
through my flatline experience and not
wanting to run my company anymore. You
>> used this term earlier, the midlife
cryales. Was that what it was?
>> Or chrysalis. Crystis.
>> Chrysalis. What is that? Is that kind of
along the same lines?
>> So if you think about the caterpillar to
butterfly journey, midlife is the
chrysalis. It's that cocoon
>> in which all of the change is happening.
at the time, you know, when you're going
through it, it's like, oh my life
my life is liquefying in front of
myself, but you know, on the other side
of it, there's a metamorphosis that
happens. And so uh I I like to use the
language and in fact I have a podcast
called the midlife crystis um because I
want to help you know change the
dialogue around midlife so that the
number one word attached to midlife is
not crisis um but in fact it's maybe
cryis and the idea that um life is meant
to be transformative uh during that era
>> that is actually very empowering I am
sort of going through that not
necessarily in this intense way yet but
that might be
You said there's a bunch of upsides to
being getting older. It might be helpful
just to share a couple of those things
for folks that are like, "Oh, wow. I
didn't realize that."
>> Emotional intelligence grows with age.
Um, our wisdom can grow with age,
although we know 70 year olds who are
not as wise as 30-year-olds. So, it's a
matter of what you do with your life
experience. I define wisdom as
metabolized experience mindfully shared
for the common good. Uh, what else gets
better with age? You learn how to edit.
you can't you you have no more Fs left
to give, no more effects left to give
there. That is absolutely true,
especially for women as they age. You
are more spiritually curious. Uh you're
um I mean the list is long and and so
there are a lot of things that actually
another one that I don't love is you're
not compartmentalized. When you're
younger, you're compartmentalized. As
you go grow older, you are growing
whole. And that means you're alchemizing
curiosity and wisdom, introvert,
extrovert, masculine, feminine,
gravitas, depth and levity, lightness.
And the people who I really admire who
are 85 years old, they're so present and
they are so whole. They are like they
are just who they are.
>> There's a quote I found from you along
these lines. The societal narrative on
aging is just don't do it.
>> Yeah. there. I mean, we sort of say like
we want we don't want to age, but we do
want to live. And quite frankly, aging
and living are the same thing as are
aging and growing.
>> Coming back to MEA, just for folks that
are like interested, curious about this,
who's this for, would you say, who
should seriously look into this program?
>> MEA is really the people who tend to
come to MA are in a midst of a
transition. It could be uh selling their
company, leaving a job, getting
divorced, um having kids, um becoming an
empty neester, taking care of parents
till they're passing away, having a
health diagnosis. That's scary. So
average age is 54 and it's people of all
walks of life. Uh so it's not just the
tech industry, but a lot, you know, it's
very popular in the tech industry. Um
it's people who are looking to maybe do
a reframe of their purpose uh and maybe
even a reinvention of their career and
so yeah and and the two campuses are
just gorgeous. Uh they it's been called
the Four Seasons meets Blue Zones meets
the Elon Institute which I like. Um, and
uh, we don't we have online programs,
too. And so you don't have to come to
either of our campuses in Mexico or on
the beach or in uh, New Mexico. Uh, you
can actually do it online.
>> Those three. Yeah, that's the tagline.
That's your tagline right there. Esselin
meets Blue Zones meets what was the
first one?
>> The Four Seasons.
>> Yeah.
>> Nailed it. Okay, I'm going to zoom out
and take us to a recurring segment on
this podcast. I want to see if this goes
anywhere. Uh AI corner. And with AI
Corner, ask guests just what's a way
that you've found AI useful in your work
or in your life. Any kind of trick
you've learned, any workflow, anything
you found useful.
>> Yeah, you know, I I have a daily blog.
It's called Wisdom Well, and it's on the
MBA website. And um when I'm looking for
inspiration,
you know, AI does it for me. And
ultimately, it gives me a first draft.
And that's good enough for me then to
say like, okay, because there's times
when I'm like missing the inspiration. I
tend to write really well in the
morning. If it's any other time of the
day, I do not like writing creatively.
Um so if I have a deadline for tomorrow
and it's five o'clock in the afternoon,
it's like, "Okay, chat GBT. I'm on my
way to you." And I I tend to use chat
GBT the most because I don't know. I
mean I like Claude as well, but um yeah.
>> Okay, awesome. I was going to ask which
tool you use uh and what's your workflow
there? Is it you use voice mode? Do you
just kind of type out here's what I'm
thinking about? Write me a little drop
blog post.
>> The good news is that at this point, uh
it knows me well enough and my and my
blogs and I've actually, you know, it it
it knows my my sort of weird sense of
humor. Uh so it's able to ape me pretty
well. So, I'll just say I need a 250word
post on um like today, you know, today's
post was a post that chat GBT helped me
with it. I said, I believe that there's
a a a reframe that needs to happen with
soul. We tend to say like I have a soul
or I don't have a soul, but what if this
my soul has me? um what if in fact my
job is just to be this
vehicle for my soul to go to the next
lifetime and my so my job is to be this
steward of the soul and I said write me
something around that and so it's just a
weird idea and of course my not all my
blog posts are so new age and and uh
like that I I I write a lot on
leadership but that was one that you
know within you know 30 seconds I had a
250word you blog post that I then
adapted. And there you go.
>> Amazing.
Chip, we've covered a lot of ground.
We've gone through your entire life.
Maybe actually just the tip of the
iceberg. With that, we've reached our
very exciting lightning round. I've got
five questions for you. Are you ready?
>> Yes. Let's do it.
>> First question. What are two or three
books that you find yourself
recommending most to other people?
>> My favorite book of all time, Man's
Search for Meaning, Victor Frankle, uh
in a concentration camp in World uh
World War II. when someone's going
through a hard time in their life, I
say, "Read that book. You'll realize
it's not so bad what you're going
through." Yeah.
>> Um, but it also really speaks to this
idea of despair equals suffering minus
meaning. I wrote a book uh called
Emotional Equations that was a New York
Times bestseller that spoke to this idea
that what if you could take all of your
emotions and turn them into equations.
Very engineering-minded of me. Um, so
that's one. Um I you know I love uh any
book by Liz Gilbert. Um sort of the
opposite. So Elizabeth Gilbert wrote E
Pray Love. Her her book she's a she's on
faculty at MEA. She teaches here. Um uh
Big Magic is just a beautiful book about
sort of like how do you get in the flow
to allow the genie to come through you.
um her TED talk in 2009 was about the
fact that genius is not about being the
genius yourself. It's about being the
receptacle for the genie to come through
you.
>> I want to come back to this uh equation
you shared. I was going to get to it but
I didn't. So this is a good opportunity
to So there's a couple that are really
interesting to me. This is you wrote
about these in a book. You have a bunch
of these equations about living a
happier life. So the one you shared is
despair equals suffering minus meaning.
>> Yes. And so the implication there is if
you want less despair increase the
meaning.
>> That's right. So suffering suffering the
sort of Buddhist philosophy number the
first noble truth of Buddhism is that
suffering is ever present. And so if
suffering is a constant and you have two
variables uh using some algebra I guess
um you know that uh if you have more
meaning you have less suffering. And so
that's that one.
The other one that I love is anxiety
equals uncertainty times powerlessness.
Maybe talk about that one briefly.
>> 98% of anxiety comes from two sources.
One is what you don't know and number
two is what you can't control or
influence and based upon social science.
And so um you can create an anxiety
balance sheet and you know create four
columns. First column is what is it you
do know about this thing that's making
you anxious? The second column is what
is it you don't know. The third column
is what is it you can control or
influence. And the fourth column is what
is it you can't control or influence.
And when you take free floating anxiety
and put it into uh a an equation, it
actually makes it more tangible and you
often are less anxious as a result.
>> Boom. Okay. So, if you're feeling
anxious right now, this is an exercise
you can do and you'll feel less anxious
in like five minutes is what I'm
>> Okay. Excellent. Very, very good nugget
of advice. Okay. Let's keep going with
the lightning round. come back from our
tangent. Do you have a favorite recent
movie or TV show you've really enjoyed?
>> I mean, Ted Lasso is I'm like a sucker
for for for that show. You know, when it
comes to movies, I'm a total movie buff.
I I we have an annual MEA film festival
uh at our Santa Fe campus. Um and I
would say that the film that I'm most
excited about that is coming out um that
most people have never heard of is
called I'll Push You. And it's the story
of two guys, one of whom is uh in a
degenerative health condition and in a
wheelchair and his best friend pushes
him the 500 miles of the Camino de
Santiago and it's the relationship they
build along that way.
>> Amazing. Very deep cut. Do you have a
favorite product that you recently
discovered that you really love?
>> Yes. Hair growing material. No. Um, you
know, uh, Viori shorts I I, you know, I
sound like Scott Galloway because he t
he advertises this, but Viori shorts are
like I just love them. You know, they're
just breathe and they're comfortable.
>> I'm wearing the Yori uh joggers right
now. Uh, the one downside of Yori, not
to make anyone mad, is they're not like
very they're kind of plasticky if you
look at the material. So, I'm trying to
like I don't know. Yeah.
>> But I do love There's nothing better.
That's the problem. I have done anything
else like this that isn't all cotton.
Yeah.
>> Yes.
>> But I'm a fan. I have many Vori. I don't
know if they're called chuggers. Just I
don't know, weekenders or something.
Anyway, love you, Vori. Okay. Do you
have a favorite life motto that you
often come back to and find really
useful in work or in life? I imagine you
have many, but is there one that comes
to mind?
>> I mean, my favorite one right now is
your painful life lessons are the raw
material for your future wisdom.
And the the premise of that is that
wisdom often comes through the school of
hard knocks. So when you're in the midst
of a really, you know, challenging time,
you're developing your future wisdom
that's going to be valuable to you.
>> Okay. Final question. You were on the
board of Burning Man or you still are.
Uh
>> it was for us. I I helped found the
board of Burning Man. Yeah.
>> Okay. No big deal. So I don't know if
you know this. I got married at Burning
Man. We had a unofficial wedding there
on bicycles. So, it's really meaningful
to us. I've been there four or five
times. Uh, what's something about
Biringham that maybe people don't know
some insight story or a really
unexpected piece of this the journey? I
may imagine there's a lot, but what
comes to
>> I would say the best not well-known
thing about Burning Man is that Burning
Man owns a place called Fly Ranch
>> and Fly Ranch is about 10 miles from
Burning Man. Now, if when you go to the
burn, uh the event in, you know, around
Labor Day, uh you cannot go over there,
it's it's it's locked off. It's 3,400
acres. But if you do, if you look at Fly
Ranch, um fly ranch.org, I think it
might even be or it's on the Burning Man
site. Fly Ranch is like the opposite of
Burning Man. Burning Man is this
alkaline desert. Like there's no no
living life there at all. It's very
masculine. Fly Ranch is like porous and
and like lots of like desert grasses and
hot springs and hot pools and it and
birds and wild horses and it's one of my
favorite hot springs places in the
world. Um so just check it out and you
can go there when it's not during the
event and and it's it's quite beautiful.
>> Feels like it might have inspired uh MEA
in many ways.
>> It didn't. Yes.
Chip, two final questions. Where can
folks find you online and how can
listeners be useful to you?
>> So online, meowisdom.com
is the website for MEA. My website's
chipconley.com, co- ny. And uh I'm on
LinkedIn. That's really from a social
media perspective, the thing that I do
the most. I actually take my daily blogs
and put them on LinkedIn.
So, and then what the what the your
community can do, just Yeah. Come say
hi. come uh check me out. And if wisdom
is interesting to you, and I think
wisdom should be interesting to
everybody here, um on the MEA website at
the very bottom footer, you will see a
bunch of free resources. One of them is
called Why Successful Leaders Value
Wisdom. It is a free resource. Um and
there there's also a free resource down
there called the Anatomy of a
Transition. Those two free resources,
understanding how to build your TQ, your
transitional intelligence and
understanding how to develop wisdom are
two, to my mind, two of the most
important modern skills that we can
have.
>> It's funny when you say you're on
LinkedIn. It feels doesn't resonate with
me. You can chip conly on LinkedIn
posting on LinkedIn. So,
>> I don't know why because I'm a little
too Burning Man.
>> You're just Yeah, exactly. It feels like
that's not your vibe. But I love that
you do it because that's where the
people are. Oh, I I put wild weird stuff
up on LinkedIn and you know, thank thank
God somebody's doing that.
>> I got for some reason I don't see it. I
need to fix that. Chip, this was
incredible. Everything I was hoping it'd
be, thank you so much for being here and
for sharing your wisdom.
>> I am so proud as I go back like I'm your
proud papa who just loves to see you in
your element. And I just want to say
make sure everybody knows the following.
Lenny was so good to work with. I really
when whenever you were assigned to a pro
uh project as a PM, I appreciated it
because I just knew that we were gonna
have great conversations and you're
you're just an interesting dude.
>> Well, I appreciate that, Chip. That's
going to be the beginning of this whole
episode. We're just going to put that up
front. Just kidding. That was awesome,
Chip. Really appreciate it. Uh and
thanks everyone for listening. Bye,
everyone.
>> Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.